NEWS for Seq66 0.99.11
Chris Ahlstrom
2015-07-10 to 2023-10-26

This file collects major changes that are older and clutter up
the README.md file.  This file should be called "OLD NEWS".

    -   Version 0.99.9:
        -   Added an "Input Bus Routing" feature, where each pattern can be
            set to receive events from a given input buss. Selectable from
            the grid-slot popup menu.
        -   Fixed nasty segfault opening new file while Editor tab open.
        -   Fixed bug: port-mapping Remap and Restart did not work due to
            timing.
        -   Fixed bug in detecting Note-related messages.
        -   Fixed error in "quiet" startup that would cause immediate exit.
        -   Related to issue #115: Added ability to select a line in the data
            pane and grab a handle to change its value.
        -   Refactored and extended zoom support, added it to event and data
            panes.
        -   Adding more seqroll keystokes (and HTML help). Enabled Esc to
            exit paint mode if not playing.
        -   Added live-note mapping (needs testing!), refactoring set-record
            code.
        -   Implemented automation for BBT/HMS toggling, FF/Rewind, Undo/Redo,
            Play-set Copy/Paste, and Record Toggle.
        -   Added a build-time option to add a show/hide button in the
            main window to allow making the window to take up much less space.
        -   Added HTML help files to data/share/doc/info, other documentation
            upgrades.
    -   Version 0.99.8:
        -   Issue #112: A new pattern now displays in the MIDI controller.
        -   Issue #114: Adding display of shortcut keys to tool tips.
        -   Added a Pattern tab to Edit / Preferences for new-pattern settings
            and jitter/randomization.
        -   Added automation for the main window Loop L/R button.
        -   Fixed seqroll drawing errors introduced in adding time-sig support.
        -   Fixed incomplete data-pane refresh in scrolling with arrow-keys.
        -   Fixed not setting up SIGINT, which prevented a proper shutdown.
        -   Fixed a couple corrupted data/midi/FM/*.mid files.
        -   Changing playlist setting enables Session Restart button.
        -   Removed coloring of record-style and -mode buttons. Added coloring
            of event-editor "Store" button to denote saving is needed.
        -   Refactoring quantization alterations for future upgrades. Added
            an option to jitter the notes in the seqroll.
        -   Enforced that configuration files are stored in the "home"
            directory.
        -   The usual raft of humiliating bug-fixes. A small sample: Updating
            the event list when recording stops; fixing record button in pattern
            editor; fixing note-selection refresh; and about a dozen more.
    -   Version 0.99.7:
        -   Issue #110 follow-ons:
            Cannot save tempo (BPM) in Windows when
            changed from main window. Caused by mixing a long and size_t,
            which messed up in the Windows build.
        -   Issue #111 follow-ons:
            -   Fixed initial time-signature drawing in data pane.
            -   Fixed errors in inserting a time-signature. Added a pulse
                calculator that iterates through time-signatures.
        -   Fixed an important port-translation bug in output port-mapping.
        -   Recent Files is disabled if there are none.
        -   Revamped the Playlist tab, as it was confusing and very buggy.
        -   Added Windows key-mapping to fix processing "native virtual" keys,
            such as the arrow keys. Also fixes issue #102.
        -   Added auto-play and auto-advance to play-lists.
        -   Fixed bug in rcsettings::make_config_filespec().
    -   Version 0.99.6:
        -   Issue #3 follow-ons:
            -   Added a qscrollslave to allow QScrollArea to allow the pattern
                editor panes to remain in sync with the seqroll when using the
                hjkl, arrow, and page keys.
        -   Issue #110 follow-ons:
            -   Addition of Start menu entries for Windows.
            -   Fixed access to the tutorial and manual. Refactored access
                to manual and tutorial for robustness.
            -   Added data/readme files and doc/tutorial files accidentally
                left out of NSIS installer.
            -   Fixed the saving of modified tempo changes.
            -   Fixed event::is_desired(), which affected changing note
                velocities in the pattern editor's data pane.  Improved
                velocity-change undo.
            -   Fixed an error preventing changing the "background" pattern.
            -   Fixed issues with port-mapping and the Windows MIDI Mapper.
            -   Issue: Building 32-bit (Windows XP) version on 64-bit Windows.
                On 64-bit Windows, this seems to require building a 32-bit
                version of the Qt toolset. Ugh.
        -   Issue #111: Adding support, as much as possible, for editing,
            storing, and displaying time signature in the pattern and event
            editors.
            -   The first time-signature in a pattern becomes the main
                time signature of the pattern. (Also stored as a c_timesig
                SeqSpec).
            -   The data pane shows a time-signature as a simple fraction.
            -   Changing the time signature if at time 0 is automatic.
            -   Time signatures at later times can be logged by setting the
                current time with a click in the top half of the time line,
                changing the beats and beat width, then clicking a time-sig log
                button.
            -   Time-signatures with a beat width that are not a power of 2
                do not add an event, but are saved as the c_timesig SeqSpec
                value.
            -   Provisional feature: we properly draw the piano roll, time line,
                event pane vertical lines as time-signature changes.
                Currently compiled in via a macro (see INSTALL).
            -   Fixed event filtering in the event (qstriggereditor) pane.
            -   Fixed time-signature editing in the event editor, and the
                B:B:T to pulses calculation.
        -   Enhanced port-mapping to prompt the user about issues and
            allow for an immediate remap-and-restart. A ton of fixes!
        -   Added 'o' keystroke to seqroll to toggle recording ('r' already
            used to randomize notes).
        -   Added a "quiet" option to not show startup message prompts.
        -   Enhanced the Edit / Preferences dialog.
        -   At first start, a log-file is now automatically created. If it
            gets larger than a megabyte, then it is deleted to start over.
        -   Fixed bug writing pattern-dump files from event editor.
        -   Improved modification detection and display in the pattern editor.
        -   Added the pattern port number to the song summary output.
        -   Updated alsa.m4 to avoid obsolete AC_TRY_COMPILE warning. Old
            version stored in contrib/scripts.
    -   Version 0.99.5:
        -   Greatly enhanced the event editor tab and the events that can
            be view and modified.
        -   Made port-mapping the default. At first startup the map
            exactly matches the existing ports; the user can edit this setup
            in the 'rc' file or the Preferences dialog.
        -   Eliminated "missing ctrl" message at first startup.
        -   Fixed port ID setting in midibus, and adding output flag in
            midi_alsa_info.
        -   Issue #110 Windows: Fixed compiler errors and added scripting to
            build NSIS-based install without leaving Windows, if desired.
        -   Internal refactoring to regularize handling of the session/config
            directory between Linux and Windows.
        -   Fixed portmidi bugs in Linux and Windows, enhanced device naming.
        -   Showing disabled/unavailable MIDI devices as grayed in various
            dropdowns.
        -   Rearranged the Seq66 man pages more sensibly.
    -   Version 0.99.4:
        -   Issue #3: The scroll wheel is enabled in the piano rolls (only).
        -   Issue #48: For a new NSM session configuration, disable "JACK"
            port auto-connect.
        -   Issue #108.  Fixed trying to remove Event tab after deleting it.
        -   Issue #109.  Fixed the application of channels to the various
            export operations.
        -   Fixed minor-but-annoying bug in reporting trying map a "null" buss.
        -   Improved state-appearance of Stop, Pause, and Play buttons.
        -   Fixed issue opening a non-standard-length pattern in its window.
        -   Fixed note events not getting linked after recording.
        -   Fixed drawing of wrap-around notes with linear gradient, and fixed
            handling of note wrap-around when set to false.
        -   Fixed refresh of Mute and Session tabs when loading a MIDI file.
        -   Added seqmenu entry for toggling recording of a pattern.
        -   Added the ability to use the first Text message as "song info".
        -   Seq66 now prevents opening the event editor if recording is in
            progress. Cannot update event editor live with new events.
    -   Version 0.99.3:
        -   Issue #107.  The basic fix is made. Still need to rehabilitate
            the Expand-pattern functionality.
        -   Issue #40.  Improved NSM handling:
            -   Seq66 detects nsmd as the parent process early in startup.
            -   Close ("X") button disabled and hidden.  Xcfe4 "close window"
                action works, though, as does response to a SIGTERM from nsmd.
            -   Handling "config" subdirectory improved.
            -   The --nsm option is now for debugging only, simulating running
                under NSM.
        -   Automation fixes:
            -   Fixed processing grid keystrokes twice.
            -   Renamed record-mode and grid-model control labels.
            -   Fixed accident disabling of grid-mode controls.
            -   Making MIDI control-out handling more reasonable.
            -   Added some LaunchPad Mini macros.
        -   Added reading/writing/displaying Meta text events such as Text
            and Cue Point.
        -   Fixed broken "recent-files" features (by forcing 'rc' save).
        -   Improvements made to playlist handling. It wasn't displaying
            the BPM of the next tune.  Still have issue with the BPM spinbox
            not causing a file modification. Editing the BPM works.
        -   Improvements and important fixes to mute-group and its MIDI
            control still in progress.
        -   Fixed the daemonization and log-file functionality.
        -   Revisited the recmutex implementation.
        -   Weird error where ALSA not found! We now avoid a crash, but
            qseq66 currently exits with only console messages.
    -   Version 0.99.2:
        -   Issue #103.  Some improvements to pattern loop-count.
        -   Pull request #106. User phuel added checkmarks for active buss and
            channel in grid-slot menu.
        -   Fixed background sequence not displaying when running with
            linear-gradient brush.
        -   Fixes to brushes and making the linear gradient (notes and triggers)
            a default run-time option.  See the 'palette' file.
        -   Other minor fixes and documentation updates, including the manual,
            as per issue #104.
    -   Version 0.99.1:
        -   Issue #44. Revisited to fix related additional issues. Can now
            toggle a pattern's song record in perfnames. Record button:
            Ctrl disables snap, Shift enables record at playback start.
            Still minor issues.
        -   Issue #93. Revisited to fix related open pattern-editor issues.
        -   Issue #100. Partly mitigated. Added a custom ringbuffer for MIDI
            message objects to replace JACK's ringbuffer. Adapted work from
            the ttymidi.c module.  Also added configuration to
            calculate the sample offset.
        -   Various fixes:
            -   Fixed partial breakage of pattern-merge function.
            -   Fixed odd breakage of ALSA playback in release mode.
            -   Fixed Stop button when another Master has started playback.
            -   Shift-click on Stop button rewinds JACK transport when running
                as JACK Slave.
            -   Display of some JACK server settings in Edit / Preferences.
            -   Fixed handling of Ctrl vs non-Ctrl zoom keys in perfroll.
            -   The pernames panel now matches the layout of a grid button
                better.  Other cosmetic changes.
            -   Event-dump now prompts for a text-file name.
        -   Added linear-gradient compile-time option (seq_features.h) for
            displaying notes and triggers. Enabled by default, edit to disable.
            Does not seem to add noticeable overhead.
    -   Version 0.99.0:
        -   Issue #44. Record live sequence changes functionality beefed up
            to handle recording without snapping.
        -   Issue #54. Updated the ax_have_qt_min.m4 file to detect
            qmake-qt5, etc.
        -   Issue #78 revisited. Pattern-box sizes would become 0 and the
            progress boxes disappear. Now the 'usr' show option is boolean
            ("pattern-boxes-shown", default = true), and the sizes are kept
            within reasonable limits.  Also added a "--locale" option so that
            the user can, for example, set the Seq66 global locale to
            "en_US.UTF-8".
        -   Issue #82 allows buttons and fields to expand better.
            Fixed for main window and the song & pattern editors only.
        -   Issue #89 fixed. The MIDI control display not quite reflecting the
            status of each pattern, especially during queuing.
        -   Issue #90 improvements. Save was not always enabled. Surely some
            issues remain.  Also, in some cases there is no way to "unmodify".
        -   Issue #93 fixed. The window of a deleted pattern now closes.
        -   Issue #94. Long song in song editor could not be scrolled to the
            right.  Added more padding and a button to expand the grid when
            when desired. For the pattern editor, the workaround is to increase
            the "length" in the pattern editor.
        -   Issue #97. Investigate/resolve differences from Seq24.
            -   Pattern editor fixes.
            -   Added paste box when pasting notes, an oversight from the Seq24
                reboot.
            -   Added Ctrl-Left/Right to move the progress bar in the pattern
                editor. (Left/Right scrolls the piano roll.)
        -   Issue #98. Feature requests (metronome and background recording).
            -   Added an initial metronome facility and 'rc' configuration.
            -   Metronome count-in added.
            -   Background automatic recording added.
        -   Various fixes:
            -   Muted pattern slots show a short progress bar, to aid in the
                timing of queuing.
            -   Improved the handling of the MIDI 'ctrl' file and control
                states upon a restart.
            -   Tightened up pattern arming/disarming processing.
            -   Implemented left/right arrow keys to move the selected trigger
                in the song editor. Ctrl moves multiple triggers. Moving a
                trigger past END moves END.
            -   Fixed error in painting tempo events in triggers (perfroll).
            -   Improved keystroke movement of "L"/"R" markers in song and
                pattern editor time bars.
            -   The global time signature is now applied to new patterns.
            -   Added a try-catch to showing the locale.
            -   Ctrl-Z removes all mouse-painted notes at once (like Seq24).
                Single-note removal is macroed out.
            -   Error in parsing "--option sets=RxC" fixed.
            -   Improved the handling of grid font sizes re window size.
            -   Fixed the response to incoming MIDI Continue.
            -   PPQN != 192 : handle snapping when adding notes; bugs in
                perfroll and perftime.
            -   Implement clear-events and double-length grid modes.
    -   Version 0.98.10:
        -   Revisited issue #83, improved GUI editing of control/display
            automation.
        -   Fixes for issue #87: segfault due to mute-group on larger set-sizes,
            inability to modify some usr options in Edit / Preferences, and
            related bugs found during these fixes. Made performer the owner of
            mutegroups.
        -   Fixes for issue #88: 4/16 pattern not shown/played properly until
            opened in editor.
        -   Fixed minor issue with port-naming, port-lists.
        -   Many tweaks to documentation, vim files, midibytes....
    -   Version 0.98.9.1:
        -   Added files needed for ./configure.
        -   Documentation and tutorial updates.
    -   Version 0.98.9:
        -   Fixed nasty issue #85 which was recreating the slot buttons, and
            in a different thread, leading to a seqfault.
        -   Fixed issue: Preference / MIDI Input port check did not change
            Apply state.
        -   Fixed mute/record/thru state display between live grid and a
            pattern editor.
        -   Updated/cleaned the tutorial.
    -   Version 0.98.8:
        -   Fixed issue #84, now able to build Qt and CLI version in one pass.
            Also fixed out-of-source builds and removed function call tracing.
            Streamlined the bootstrap script; it was always "configuring".
        -   Changed the Apply button from Edit / Preferences to a Restart
            button.  Further tightening of change detection.
        -   Moved midibyte/midiboolean functions from strfunctions to midibytes
            and mutegroup. Much header-file cleanup. Do a --full-clean!
        -   Added Ctrl-Home and Ctrl-End support to the song editor.
        -   Added an initial HTML tutorial and commands to access it.  Add
            shellexecute module to replace the ill-performing QDesktopServices.
        -   Important configure.ac/Makefile.am upgrades.
    -   Version 0.98.7:
        -   Fixed issue #80 where some MIDI controls were getting recorded.
        -   Fixed issue #81, adding <stdexcept> to code catching
            std::invalid_argument.
        -   Fixed issue #83 where parsing 'rc' port lines failed with a
            port name having a trailing space. Also fixed short-port-name
            detection.
        -   Added a "Pattern Fix" dialog to allow a whole pattern to be shifted,
            quantized, and changed in length all at once. Useful for fixing a
            badly played pattern or scaling the duration.
        -   Fixed the issue of leftover child windows of qseqeditframe64.
        -   Removed odd beat-widths from time signature dropdowns.  Can
            still enter odd values manually, but unsupported by MIDI format.
        -   Refactored drop-down lists to use the settings module.
        -   Tightend string_to_xxx() functions and replaced the std::stoxxx()
            functions to avoid throwing exceptions.
        -   Trying to get rolls, time, data, and event panes to line up no
            matter what the Qt theme is. Difficult.
        -   Tightening the setting/clearing of performer modification re
            sequence changes to reduce unnecessary prompts to save, flag
            modification via the asterisk change marker, and enable/disable the
            File / Save option in the correct way.
        -   Tightened the saving of WRK and MIDI files.
        -   Major refactoring to replace seq::pointers with seq::refs in many
            places.
        -   Updated the bootstrap script to make 'release' the default, and
            fixed the portmidi automake build process for Linux.
    -   Version 0.98.6:
        -   Revisited issue #41 to make sure "Quit" is "Hide" under NSM. Also
            fixed issue with the "newtune.midi" default name.
        -   Fixed a minor bug involving setting input aliases.
        -   Fixed bug with setting last-used-directory to "".
        -   Fixed handling of Live/Song mode in performer and in 'rc' saving.
        -   Fixed stupid seqedit bug for selecting beats/bar.
        -   Disabling/enabling JACK input and output on the fly in Preferences
            works, as long as they had been enabled at startup.
        -   Added Preferences options to toggle the double-click edit feature
            and select the Live/Song/Auto mode.  Added Apply/Reset buttons.
        -   Removed long-unused "rtmidi callback" code and other disabled code.
        -   Got user-manual screenshots up-to-date.
        -   Upgraded and fixed file-name splitting and rebuilding.
        -   Modify flag now set when painting notes in seqroll.
        -   Improved appearance of Loop/Record/Quantize buttons in main grid.
        -   Improved modification detection of sequences and main window.
        -   Refactored global SeqSpecs for better robustness, fewer surprises.
        -   Added a file-changed check before restarting the application.
        -   More code/macro cleanup.
    -   Version 0.98.5:
        -   Added locking for the event-drawing loops to prevent segfaults.
            Active only when recording; prevents iterator invalidation.
        -   Added an underrun indicator to the main window.
        -   The client name ("seq66") is no longer shown, nor saved in the 'rc'
            file. Easier to use multiple Seq66's with the --client-name option.
        -   Updating Dia diagram, finding and fixing issues and dead code.
        -   Added global internal check for both portmaps being active.
        -   Fixed bad slot connection for import_midi_into_session().
        -   Bad command-line options now cause an exit. This includes JACK
            options when Seq66 is built without JACK support.
        -   Improve the coherence of JACK-less builds. Some related NSM tweaks.
        -   Adding JACK access functions for the future. Improved internal
            port initialization code. Removed some non-useful rtmidi code.
        -   Adding the ability to disable/enable input and output on the fly in
            the MIDI Clock and Input tabs.  Still in progress, though.
    -   Version 0.98.4:
        -   Fixed bug in recording-type selector in seqedit. Added a one-shot
            reset option.
        -   Fixed some metadata problems as per issue #75.
        -   Fixed an issue with the H:M:S display being changed by changing the
            beat-width, a bug going back to Seq24's JACK transport support.
        -   MIDI API refactoring for the future; detecting JACK port
            registration.
    -   Version 0.98.3.1:
        -   Revisited issue #45. Doh!
        -   Cleaned up the Makefiles, fixed minor issues.
    -   Version 0.98.3:
        -   Fixed issue #76.  Fixed broken MIDI Start handling. Added setting
            the tempo via a tempo event.  Still thinking about MMC.
        -   Fixed old bug in showing note events; they were filtered by the
            pattern-configured channel!
        -   Tweaks to style-sheet handling.
        -   Fixed misuses of msgprintf(). Other minor bug fixes.
        -   In a new NSM session, do not load the most-recent MIDI file, even
            if specified in the imported configuration.  Also, no longer do an
            automatic import of the home configuration to the NSM configuration.
            Instead, use the "File / Import / Import Project" menu entry.
            See the user manual for how this works.
        -   Added a "File / Import / Import Playlist" command.
            See the user manual for how this works.
        -   Made virtual port names in ALSA more consistent. Also create the
            ports (in JACK, too) even if disabled.  Still experimental.
        -   Added Preferences item for the BPM Precision setting.
        -   Added contrib/code/ametro.c to provide ALSA test for MIDI clocking.
        -   Added GNU -finstrument-functions support, but too problematic.
    -   Version 0.98.2:
        -   Fixed issue #74, where -1 for "no buss-override" was being converted
            to 0.
        -   Added detection of missing system ports when mapping ports.
        -   Song duration label is now a button to select time versus measures.
        -   Removed useless flags for loading keystroke and MIDI controls.
        -   Avoid applying mute-group 0 if song has triggers and song-mode is
            'auto'.
        -   Fixes to log-file handling.
        -   Added "Blank" for disabling keystrokes in the 'ctrl' file.
    -   Version 0.98.1:
        -   Work on creating an NSIS installer for a 64-bit Windows build.
        -   Fixed a stupid segfault bug with the --help option.  Doh!
        -   Changed some extended automation keys (for grid modes).
        -   Minor fixes: (1) Set to set 0 when opening a MIDI file; (2) Expand a
            pattern when merging a longer one into it; (3) fixed pattern access
            in sets > 0; (4) fixed an error in string tokenization.
        -   Fixes for port-mapping and naming; if present, the user sets the
            status of the port-map, which is copied to the matching port.
        -   Fixes in song-editor set-names display.
        -   Removed unused module qskeymaps.
    -   Version 0.98.0:
        -   Fixed issue #41 "Hide Seq66 on closing window" via a "visibility"
            automation command and by fixing the response to "hide/show"
            messages from NSM. Note that the NSM API permits the "Quit" command
            to exit the application. Also see the comments at issue #64 "NSM: UI
            show up after restarting the app".
        -   Fixed issue #73 "Compile error because of jack_get_version_string"
            by detecting the presence of this function in configure.ac.
        -   Truly fixed high CPU usage in Windows version of the condition
            variable "wait".  Replaced pthread implementation with C++'s
            condition_variable.
        -   Added "MIDI macros" to the 'ctrl' file.  Can send SysEx or other
            messages from a drop-down list; automatic startup and exit messages.
            More to come.
        -   Added a feature to extract JACK port aliases and show them
            to the user so that the system port can be associated with a named
            device (e.g. "Launchpad-Mini").
        -   Added api_sysex() overrides, at last.
        -   Added Preference items for MIDI control I/O.
        -   Improved the display of the MIDI file-name in title and live grid.
        -   Improving grid-mode functionality, adding more automation controls,
            in progress.
    -   Version 0.97.3:
        -   Added pattern-recording indicator to live-grid slots.
        -   Replace useless "Record" automation command with a "Loop Mode"
            command to move between normal loop mode in the Live grid to various
            record-toggling modes:  Overdub (merge), Overwrite, Expand, and
            One-shot.
        -   Also refactored the quantize control to move through states of
        -   normal, quantize, and tighten.
        -   Refactored MIDI control for possible future usage of the D1 event
            value.
        -   Fixes to external live grid handling.
        -   Fixed the display of loop status changed via MIDI control.
        -   Fixed and updated the Windows build.  Mitigated high CPU usage
            when not (!) playing; fixed a bug in microsleep() for Windows.
    -   Version 0.97.2.1:
        -   Fixed odd breakage of loop-control hot-keys. Doh!
    -   Version 0.97.2:
        -   Issue #57: Increased width of option fields for wider fonts.
        -   Issue #58: Indicate if NSM is running in Preferences / Sessions and
            disable other session selections at that point.
        -   Issue #59: Spelling error(s) fixed.
        -   Issue #60: Added 'rc' option to disable JACK port auto connect in
            normal mode.  Also present in Preferences / JACK.
        -   Issue #61: Rearranged console output to show the app name, in color.
            Also turns off color if redirected to a file.
        -   Issue #63: Initial work on rotating numbering of patterns, sets, and
            mutes, so that numbers vary faster by column than by row.
        -   Issue #64: Fix a bug in optional GUI, testing with Agordejo (NSM).
        -   Added textfix.qss to make disabled text easier to read in themes.
        -   Improved the saving/restoring of Edit / Preferences.
        -   Added option "Bold Grid Slots" to make the progress bar and progress
            border thick, and the slot font bold.
        -   Added the ability to reload the configuration via a button press
            that restarts the application.
        -   More streamlining of configuration writing.
        -   No longer show the grid slot progress bar moving in muted tracks.
        -   Mute-group names now stored in the 'mutes' file.  Also able to edit
            them in the Mutes tab.  Also fixed botched mutes-in-MIDI-file
            handling.
        -   Removed dead-code from the event-editor frame.
        -   Changing behavior of external live frames for more flexibility.
    -   Version 0.97.1:
        -   Fixed a bad bug in displaying Notes in the data & event panels in
            the pattern editor, caused by premature ... optimization.
            per issue #61.
        -   Added working tempo-track code to Edit / Preferences / MIDI Clock.
        -   Added exponential ramping of Event Panel events to the pattern LFO
            dialog.
        -   Added the ability to move selected Event Panel events using the
            Left/Right arrow keys.
        -   Improved the handling of sets and external live grids.
        -   Updated documentation extensively. Optimized some images.
        -   Stopped bootstrap --full-clean from removing Makefile.in files.
    -   Version 0.97.0:
        -   Added limited vertical zoom to the song editor (performance roll).
            Still has vertical scroll issues.
        -   Added more Preferences settings, enabled some that were not yet
            implemented.  Upgraded the handling of the configuration files.
            By default, the 'rc' file is always saved, in case ports change.
        -   Added option "wrap-around" (for notes) to the 'usr' file.
        -   Added option "lock-main-window" to the 'usr' file to prevent
            resizing the window.
        -   Added code to show unlinked note events on the seqroll, the "u"
            key to remove them, and the "=" key to relink them.
        -   Added more build information to --version and Help / Build Info.
        -   Fixed drawing slot-button borders, drawn with no pattern color now.
        -   Got auto-scaling of the slot button font working.
        -   Implemented the Help / About links as per issue #21.
        -   Added OpenSUSE INSTALL notes from the sivecj/Seq66 fork.
        -   Improved the display and editing of tempo events, especially in the
            pattern editor. Also tightened handling of status values.
        -   Can now copy/paste a pattern from one MIDI file to another.
        -   Fixed minor bug in Import dialog handling.
        -   Refactoring for SMF 0 reading and export.
        -   Minor fix to flag changed tune (an asterisk).
    -   Version 0.96.3:
        -   Added ability to modify Note On and Note Off at the same time in the
            event editor. Fixed and updated event::get_rank().
        -   Fixed output port-map issue with lookup of "FLUID Synth". Removed
            the random ID number; search the port name via containment, not
            equality.
        -   Usage of the JACK Session API restored, though "deprecated".
            Removed all traces of LASH support. Added a configuration tab
            for allowing session management via JACK or NSM.
        -   Added an automation control for "save session".
    -   Version 0.96.2:
        -   Fixed issue #55, where the MIDI control channel was being stripped
            when using JACK.  Many other channel-handling improvements.
        -   Fixed a related issue: null (status = 0) control events were sent.
        -   Fixed a bug in "portmidi" MIDI input handling where only the last
            device events would be processed.
        -   Improved pause/continue support with JACK transport.
        -   Fixed 'rc' allow-click-edit feature.
        -   Made the buss-override settings act more consistently.
        -   Fixed the drawing of preview keys in virtual keyboard.
        -   Fixed setting the modify flag when opening existing pattern.
        -   Added settings interface for the "set mode" of playback.
        -   Added selection of notes and event by channel.
    -   Version 0.96.1:
        -   Restored drag and drop of patterns in the Live frame.
        -   Added the ability to copy all patterns in one set to another set.
        -   Fixed song-start-mode handling when "auto" is specified.
        -   Added "Control" and "Program" (GM) drop-downs in the event editor.
        -   Now display full path names in the recent file list to distinguish
            files better.  An 'rc' config item.
        -   Added a few configuration options to Edit / Preferences.
        -   Added 'usr' options to change the vertical offset of notes in the
            progress-box of each pattern button, and to provide default labeling
            of the piano keys.
        -   Tweaked the drawing of notes and drum notes.
        -   More work on set-handling.
        -   Fixed panic-button disabling Launchpad display output. However,
            if pressed before exit, the lights remain on and there is a slit
            delay in exiting the session (in ALSA; works fine in JACK).
    -   Version 0.96.0:
        -   Adding code to control the visibility of the main window; added
            a "Visibility" MIDI control option, and support for the
            "optional-gui" flag of the Non Session Manager.
        -   Fixed harmonic transposition settings.
        -   Fixed bug that drew fingerprint at top of button; and another bug
            that disabled showing the pattern if fingerprinting was disabled.
        -   Can now read MIDI files that are readable, but not writable, and
            disable File / Save as needed.
        -   Added hjkl arrow keys to seqroll and perfroll. Why? We have a
            Microsoft Arc keyboard with all the arrows on one small button.
        -   Fixed the Mixolydian mode scale. Oops.
        -   The pattern editor time, roll, data, and event frames line up.
        -   Fixed error reading mute-groups; small fixes to configuration files.
        -   Work on fitting pattern-editor in tab.
        -   Work on mitigating weird hang in QApplication destructor.
    -   Version 0.95.1:
        -   Added 'auto' option to song-start-mode setting.
        -   Added missing harmonic-transposition option to the pattern editor.
        -   Fixed issues with some of the file-dialogs.
        -   Fixed issues with editing keystrokes being passed from the tabbed
            editors to the main window (and the live frame).
        -   Improved arrow-key handling in seqroll.
        -   Removed PortMidi Java configuration parsing code.
        -   Important fixes to NSM sessions.
        -   Added 'one-shot' option the the 'usr' file record-style setting.
        -   Improved support for making the user-interface smaller; 4x4 sets.
        -   Added the "enigmatic" scale.
        -   Fixes to handling of musical key, scale, and background pattern.
        -   Finalized the scale-finder code (Ctrl-K in the pattern editor
            piano roll.)
        -   Updated libtool support, now seq66cli is under 200K in size.
        -   Removed QtWidget directory from qclocklayout #includes for issue
            #54.  Also added error-message and about to the Qt m4 file.
    -   Version 0.95.0:
        -   Updated almost all settings to use "name = variable" convention
            to improve readability.  This will change the format of config-files
            slightly upon exit.
        -   Fixes made to the sample Launchpad Mini 'ctrl' files.  Also added a
            "Quit" command, especially useful in a headless run.
        -   Added 8 "Alt" MIDI Control Out values to support special cases
            not covered by the concrete set of control-out values.
        -   Major cleanup and neatening of header files.
        -   Minor bugs and regressions fixed along the way.
        -   Loop-edit key will create a new sequence if slot is empty.
        -   Patterns empty of playable events no longer show unnecessary
            progress bars.
        -   The estimated duration of a tune is shown in the Song tab, based
            on pattern lengths and song triggers.
    -   Version 0.94.0:
        -   Major improvements to the stability of MIDI control of playlists.
        -   Added Phrygian scale thanks to user WinkoErades.
        -   Update the 'rc' file for a simpler specification of JACK MIDI and
            JACK transport.
        -   Removed the old-style live frame; use themes and style-sheets to
            create the old look if you like it.
        -   Removed a lot of debugging material of no use now.
        -   Fixed (mostly) a weird bug causing the application to hang
            on exit when set as JACK Master.  Pretty damn weird.
        -   Improving support for non-default PPQNs.
        -   Patterns can now be copied and merged into a new pattern to combine
            (for example) separate percussion tracks.
        -   Fixed error in playlist::verify() adding an empty list.
        -   Improving the handling of headless seq66cli; added a "quit"
            automation function for MIDI-only use.
        -   Fixed some issues with reading Cakewalk WRK files.
    -   Version 0.93.2:
        -   Changed the mute-group format inside the MIDI file to use a much
            less disk space (about 3K less).  Can be set in the 'rc' file to
            write the old format.
        -   Minor tweaks to the transposed-trigger functionality.  Can be set in
            the 'rc' file to write the old format.
        -   Removed the code for the essentially unused Seqtool application.
        -   Removed the now unnecessary old-style qseqeditframe.
        -   Add 'usr' tweaks options to change the size of the live-grid
            progress boxes, or eliminate them completely.
        -   Refactored keymaps for better progress on issue #47, using native
            key-codes. Added a spreadsheet listing the supported names of the
            keys.  Laid the groundwork for a 'keys' mapping file.
        -   Removed excess spurious events when Seq66 shuts down under JACK.
        -   Implemented the control-toggling of "follow JACK transport".
        -   Fixed a bug in the pattern editor that created unnecessary empty
            screen-sets.
        -   Further fixes and flexibility for handling mute-groups.
        -   Fixed the installation of libseq66 and libsession library header
            files in "make install" to preserve their base subdirectories.
            (The other libraries currently do not use base subdirectories.)
    -   Version 0.93.1:
        -   Work in progress on issue #47; added a keyboard-layout option to the
            'ctrl' file to disable auto-shift and tweak the internal key-map for
            some keyboards.  Added an "AZERTY" 'ctrl' file to the installation.
        -   Improved group-learn key control.
        -   Fixed issue #49, mute-group issues, plus a bug in saving mutes to
            the MIDI file.  Added a couple more flags to the 'mutes' file.
        -   Fixed issue #50, made the slot text color the same as the label
            color, and provided a "secret" default color that will cause the
            text to match the theme.  This can be overridden by a palette file.
        -   Fixed issue #51 (show-stopper!), where playback with JACK transport
            enable was extremely erratic on some platforms.
        -   Add clearing of the performer "play-set" for "File / New" to
            prevent the previous song from being playable. :-D
        -   Activate usage of (larger) seqedit frame in the "Edit" tab via
            a 'usr' option.  Adapted the size to better fit, but the user still
            needs to increase vertical dimension slightly to see the bottom
            buttons.  Will eventually eliminate the old version of the tabbed
            Edit frame.
        -   Fixed a bug in drawing notes as a new one is recorded; needed to
            "verify-and-link".
        -   Added a loop-count for live playback of a pattern.  0 means normal
            infinite looping; 1 means "one-shot"; and higher numbers will work.
            Stored with the pattern in the MIDI file.
    -   Version 0.93.0:
        -   Added a transpose value to song editor triggers to support shifting
            patterns automatically during Song play.  Added an 'rc' option to
            save MIDI files using the original triggers.
        -   Improved the song editor vertical scrollbar, it adjusts to the
            number of actual sets.
        -   Added the L/R marker feature to the external pattern editor, and
            Song mode is no longer required to use it.  This makes it easier
            to explore a long pattern for extracting to a short pattern loop.
        -   Added more perfroll snap options, including one to force Seq24
            behavior.
        -   Make the perf-names now also show the pattern color. They highlight
            as the mouse moves over the pattern rows, useful for long songs.
        -   Fixed playback of ultra-long patterns due to not sleeping in the
            output loop (forgot to convert milliseconds to microseconds).
        -   Fixed vertical zoom in the pattern editor.
        -   Fixed a bad bug in writing Meta and SeqSpec data-lengths greater
            than 127.
        -   Enhanced the event editor to work with channel-less tracks.
        -   Added channel and bus menus to the grid-button popup menu.
    -   Version 0.92.2:
        -   Added a Qt "style-sheet" configuration it to the 'usr' file. It
            can be used to alter the appearance of the application beyond what
            a palette can do.  A sample 'qss' file is provided.
        -   Fixed PPQN modification, added user-interface and 'usr'
            configuration to change the default PPQN from 192.
        -   Fixed many issues with changing the time signature.
        -   Fixed creation of new configuration files.
        -   Fixed port-mapping for MIDI output, control, and status display.
        -   Removed the external set-master; use the set-master tab.
        -   Tightened meta-events and set-handling.
        -   More fixes to Song recording; added a Snap button for it.
        -   Fixed the rendering of the beat indicator and pattern fonts.
        -   Updated the man pages and the documentation.
    -   Version 0.92.1:
        -   Fixed issue #42 by adding scrollbars to I/O lists in Preferences
            when there are many ports on the system; also increased port
            limits to 48 ports.
        -   Fixed issues with iterating through MIDI events in the
            user-interfaces.
        -   Big fixes to Song recording. More to do?
        -   Added an experimental one-shot auto-step step-edit feature for
            recording (for example) drumbeats from MIDI devices.
        -   Fixed bug in parsing Fluidsynth port names.
        -   Improved handling of MIDI I/O control of Seq66.  Added more
            automation-display events, more testing.
        -   Updated documentation, including a ODF spreadsheet for the MIDI
            control configuration of the Launchpad Mini.
    -   Version 0.92.0:
        -   Fixed issue #34: "seq66 does not follow jack_transport tempo changes"
        -   Fixed issues with applying 'usr' buss and instrument names to the
            pattern-editor menus.
        -   Fixing serious issues with the event editor. Now deletes both
            linked notes.
        -   Added mute-group-out to show mutegroups on Launchpad Mini buttons.
        -   Tightened up mute-group handling, configuration file handling,
            play-list handling, and MIDI display device handling.
        -   Stream-line the format of the 'ctrl' file by removing columns for
            the values of "enabled" and "channel".  Will detect older formats
            and fix them.
        -   A PDF user manual is now provided in the doc directory, installed
            to /usr/local/share/doc/seq66-0.92 with "make install".
    -   Version 0.91.6:
        -   Massively updated the Mutes tab.
        -   More documentation.
        -   More fixes to the song editor.
        -   Added more files to the creation setup at the first run of Seq66.
    -   Version 0.91.5:
        -   Added vertical zoom to the pattern editor (V keys and buttons).
        -   Added more control over the coloring of notes.
        -   Still improving the port-mapper feature.
        -   Added quotes to file-paths in the 'rc' configuration file.
        -   Many fixes to seqedit, perfedit.  Way too many to mention them
            all.  Changed the 4/4 and length selections to be editable.
        -   Getting serious about rewriting the user manual in this project.
    -   Version 0.91.4:
        -   Improved port naming and provide an option for short or long port
            names.
        -   Improved safety in NSM sessions.
        -   Major refactoring the color handling.  Colors have changed!!!
    -   Version 0.91.3:
        -   Added check to not apply last mute-group if in Song mode.
        -   Provisional support for playing multiple sets at once and for
            auto-arming the selected set when loaded.
        -   Added a configurable number for virtual MIDI input/output ports.
        -   Provides an option to for multiple-set playback and auto-arming
            of a newly-selected set.
        -   Fixed bug in string-to-int conversion uncovered by automatic
            mute-group restore.
        -   Refactoring port naming and I/O lists.
        -   Minor play-list fixes.
    -   Version 0.91.2:
        -   Fix developer bug causing playlists to not load properly.
        -   Fix crash when 'rc' file specifies empty mutes and ctrl files.
    -   Version 0.91.1:
        -   More fixes for mute-group (mutes) handling.
        -   Ability to save the last-active mute-group for restoring on startup.
        -   Added a button to toggle insert mode in pattern and song editors.
        -   Robustness enhancement to NSM support.
    -   Version 0.91.0:
        -   Non Session Manager support essentially complete.  The
            refactoring to do this was massive.
        -   All too many bug fixes and minor improvements.
        -   Added --copy-dt-needed-entries to qseq66 Makefile.am to fix
            linkage errors that cropped up in debug builds.
        -   Got the CLI version building, needs a lot of testing.
        -   Playlist editing from the user-interface much improved.
    -   Version 0.90.6:
        -   Fixed issue #19 where recording notes caused a segfault.
    -   Version 0.90.5:
        -   More refactoring to improve Windows builds and fix deadlocks and
            playback on a default Windows 10 install.
        -   Added code to implement Song/Live and JACK Transport key toggles.
        -   MIDI control improved for control and for status display by
            devices like the Launchpad Mini, using new "ctrl" files.
        -   Fixes:
            -   Fixed a bug using millitime() instead of microtime().
            -   Issue #13, data and event/trigger panes not reflecting event
                changes.  Change handling improved in general with more
                performer callbacks.
            -   The data pane was some pixels off in the tabbed edit-frame.
            -   Fix a lot of issue with using sets and an 8x8 Seq66 grid.
        -   Improved error-handling and reporting.
    -   Version 0.90.4:
        -   Some refactoring to improve Windows builds.
    -   Version 0.90.3:
        -   Added signal handling (e.g. for nsm-proxy) from user falkTX.
            Used in the CLI and Qt versions to trigger file save and
            application exit.
        -   Added code to define the engine used and the exact "uname a-" of the
            operating system on which the build was done, for the --version
            option.
        -   Fixed issue #5 to save/restore note-on resumes and get them
            working in Live mode and Song mode.
        -   Fixed issues with perfoll and grid-button rendering, synch between
            button and seqedit mute status, growing notes in the seqroll, and
            more.
        -   Added writing of blank [midi-control-out] section.
        -   Fixed flickering when muting/unmuting patterns via keystrokes.
    -   Version 0.90.2:
        -   Lots of code cleanup.
        -   Added truncation of BPM to precision in "usr" file.
        -   Fixed at bug in handling running status; backported to Seq64.
    -   Version 0.90.1:
        -   A raft of bug fixes and user-interface improvements.
        -   Many tweaks to try to make the performer and the user-interface even
            faster.
    -   Version 0.90.0:
        -   The application and documentation are now (barely) suitable for
            public consumption, after residing on a server (a Toshiba laptop) at
            home for months.

# vim: sw=4 ts=4 wm=4 et ft=markdown
