Release Notes for Seq66 v. 0.99.11 2023-12-05

-   Added 8 more ui-palette entries, total of 32.
-   Added display of the pattern input bus (if present) in the grid
    slot.
-   Moved style-sheet options from 'usr' to the 'rc' file.
-   Fixed errors setting style-sheet, palette, and mutes file in
    Preferences / Session. Now indicates when exit is needed.
-   Added mute-group label ("MG") to main window.
-   Fixing various playlist errors:
    -   PPQN setting issue causing slow/fast playback. Cannot
        display 120 PPQN well, fix too intrusive at this time.
    -   Segfaults due to not stopping playback before loading
        the next song, or basing calculations on missing values.
-   Embarassing fixes:
    -   The massive botch of the Set Master tab.
    -   More Mutes tab fixes, including raising modify flag.
    -   App exiting unceremoniously if "quiet" is set.
    -   Issue in Song zoom with 1920 PPQN.
    -   Odd bug breaking MIDI-control-out (display).
    -   Preventing long redundant start-up error messages.
    -   Solo feature. Unsolo before starting another solo.
    -   Queue and keep-queue.
    -   Not saving record-by-channel. Fixed record-by-channel.
    -   Not modifying the song when pattern measures is changed.
    -   Breakage of stopping song play at the end of song.
    -   Bug in event-editor initialization.
    -   Not applying note-length setting to step-edit.
-   Added a pre-made MIDI file to use with record-by-channel.
-   Added ways to toggle recording of multiple patterns.
-   Added a record-by-buss feature.
-   Can now paste a pattern into a new or another loaded MIDI file.
-   When loading a MIDI file, the file dialog defaults to the
    last-used directory. Fixes made to this feature.
-   Improved copy/paste for screen-sets.
-   Added optional parameter to --priority option.
-   Focus is now set immediately to seqroll and perfroll.
-   --verbose now shows playlist actions on the console and prevents
    daemonization and logging to a file.
-   Replaced the --inspect option with --session-tag for easy
    selection of another setup specified in sessions.rc. Also added
    the SEQ66_SESSION_TAG environment variable.
-   Added showing program changes in slot button.
-   Added showing text events in the data pane and all text events
    in the main Session tab. Fixed its Save Info button.
-   Implemented "menu-mode" automation. It duplicates the function
    of the hide/show button, to toggle between hiding some main
    window controls and the main menu, and showing them.

See NEWS for more details.

# vim: sw=4 ts=4 wm=15 et ft=sh
