Data/Midi Directory for Seq66 0.99.11
Chris Ahlstrom
2021-04-14 to 2023-11-22

This directory contains sample MIDI files to be installed for instructional
purposes and for detecting issues in loading files.

    16-blank-patterns.midi

        This file is useful when using the record-by-channel option.
        Make a copy of it, load it, and use this option for recording.
        The record-by-channel option requires that the destination
        sequences for channels present in the input are already created.
        This file also include a 17th pattern that is "free"... it does
        not impose a channel number on the output.

    b4uacufm.mid
    b4uacuse-gm-patchless.midi

        The first file is our original transcription of the Eric Clapton &
        Robert Cray tune "Before You Accuse Me".  The second file is converted
        to Seq66 format, though each pattern is very long and only one trigger
        per pattern is used in the song editor.  It makes a good way to verify
        that the basics work.

    carptsun.midi

        "The Carpet of the Sun", a beautiful song from Renaissance.  This
        file was converted from an initial effort, done for the nifty
        consumer keyboard, the Yamaha PSS-790, a couple decades ago, using
        our midicvtpp project (available on GitHub) and an INI file to
        convert the drum and patches from PSS-790 to General MIDI:

        $ midicvtpp --m2m data/samples/GM_PSS-790_Multi.ini \
            carptsun.mid data/midi/carptsun.midi

        We will do some more chopping on this file, eventually, to use short
        loops where possible and lay them out using the song editor.

    Chameleon-HHancock-Ov.midi

        We found this file, and it is a pleasant rendition of a Herbie Hancock
        classic.
    
    colours.midi

        This file illustrates the usage of colors in patterns.

    EE-qsynth-presets.conf

        This sample can be added to the QSynth configuration.  However, we
        have found that Timidity works better out of the box for previewing
        tunes.

    If_You_Could_Read_My_Mind.mid

        Another song found, used in our initial testing of the Windows build.

    Kraftwerk-Europe_Endless-reconstructed.midi
    Kraftwerk-Europe_Endless.asc
    Kraftwerk-Europe_Endless.text

        This MIDI file is a reconstruction of a MIDI file found on the Web.
        What we did with it is described in the "text" file.  The "asc" is a
        partial dump (via midicvt) of some of the events in the original file.

    Peter_Gunn-reconstructed.midi
    Peter_Gunn.text

        This MIDI file is another, simpler and short reconstruction, as
        described in the text file.

    FM and PSS-790 directories

        These files support testing the installed play-list functionality.
        These tunes are old and currently do not support General MIDI.
        One of these days we will remap them or at least add more
        appropriate program/patch changes.

# vim: sw=4 ts=4 wm=8 et ft=sh
