MIDI Sample and Test Files
Chris Ahlstrom
2015-09-11 to 2020-03-28

This directory contains contributed MIDI files for examples and testing.
Also see the test files from the midicvt as described in
midicvt-test-files.txt; we found a few bugs to fix, and potential features
to add, by loading them into Seq66.  Some of these files have been
resaved with the new features.  For example, see the various versions of
the "example1" file.

   1Bar.midi:

        A small sample to play with.  Was also saved (accidentally)
        with a buss-override of 5, so the buss will not appear in the pattern
        editor unless it happens to exist.  Also added notes and used the LFO
        editor to set DC = 64, Mod Range = 64, Periods = 7.77, Phase Shift = 0.21,
        and Waveform = 1 (Sine wave).  Also added some extra notes after
        modulation, which shows that we do not handle two different velocities at
        the same time value.

   2Bars.midi:

        A 2-bar sample.  Also shows different values of velocity, but added
        via the mouse on the data pane.

   2rock.mid:

        This drum file we found has "Lyric" sections in it that broke
        reading of the MIDI file.  So this is a new test case.  It resulted
        in a fix to the handling of running status.

   allofarow.mid:

        A file having a lot of empty tracks and one filled track.
        In Sequencer64, it loads as 140 BPM, but plays really slowly.
        In seq24, it loads as 120 BPM, but plays somewhat normally!

   click_4_4.midi:
   
        Holds a click-track for use with the Seq24-session script.

   reset.mid:
   
        A file that resets all MIDI channels.

   CountryStrum.midi:

        This file is the CountryStrum.mid SMF 0 file imported into
        Sequencer64, with the SMF 0 track removed, and all the sequences
        moved over to the leftmost position in the main window.

   k_ee_track.midi:

        This is one track of a MIDI file of the Kraftwerk tune "Europe
        Endless".  That file caused some weird stuff to happen, and this
        one long (258 measures!) track is enough to reproduce the issue,
        event with Meta Port events and SysEx messages stripped from it.

Also see the "data" directory which contains some MIDI/WRK files that get
installed:

   b4uacuse-gm-patchless.midi:

      A GM version of an Eric Clapton and Robert Cray tune, "Before You
      Accuse Me", suitable for playback with (for example) QSynth.

   colours.midi:

      Demonstrates using colors with patterns.

   longhair.wrk:
   oxygen4b.wrk:

      Cakewalk files we created many years ago.

Also see the Sequencer64 project for a lot more sample files and test files.

# vim: sw=3 ts=3 wm=8 et ft=sh
